# 2019-03-02

## Participants
- Tom Brehm
- Me

## Recipe
https://mashcamp.shop/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/Braupaket-Universalrezept-American-Pale-Ale.pdf

## Equipment
- Grainfather
- Grainfather sparge kettle

## Notes
This was our first brew with the grainfather, so basically a learning exercise.

I bought the grainfather in-store in a kit from the folks at http://www.beerstorevienna.at/, and they provided
some malt and hops as part of that kit, so we were just brewing that to get used to it all.

Overall, the brew day seemed to go well, we started around 12:00, and finished around 20:00 - so it was definitely
not the shortest of days. I didn't record any timings during the day though so it's hard to know where the time was
spent. I suspect a lot of it was cleaning before/after. Cleaning before the brew shouldn't be necessary next time, that's
a first-time thing to clean off oils used in manufacturing.

Stuff that was good:
- The sparge kettle - this just made life so easy.
- The grainfather itself - totally apartment friendly.

Stuff that wasn't so good:
- The hopsock, just seemed like a major pain, it kept the hops up near the top, and was just floating on the surface so hops ended up in the brew anyway.

Possible changes for next time:
- No need to clean before next time.
- Schedule the grainfather to start heating the strike water so we can hit the ground running.
- Don't use a hopsock, see how that goes, I've heard of stuck filters on the grainfather without one, but we'll see.
- Brew 10 litres - a) because I want to iterate on custom recipes, and b) because it should bring down the time spent waiting for things like the boil (which took ~ 30m).
- Buy pre-ground grain - it was a bit of a fun using the mill this time around, but it took a good ~30m to get everything ready, and covered the kitchen in shrapnel. Ultimately I'll get a different mill to make life easier.

